README.md, before:

# AMICI: Attention Mechanism Interpretation of Cell-cell Interactions

[![CC BY-NC 4.0][cc-by-nc-shield]][cc-by-nc]

[cc-by-nc]: https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-nc/4.0/
[cc-by-nc-shield]: https://img.shields.io/badge/License-CC%20BY--NC%204.0-lightgrey.svg

Cross-attention-based cell-cell interaction inference from ST data.

<img width="839" height="366" alt="amici_framework" src="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/13b05cb1-d59a-4ef1-8abe-858c8414448e" />

## Installation

You need to have Python 3.10 or newer installed on your system. If you don't have
Python installed, we recommend installing [Mambaforge](https://github.com/conda-forge/miniforge#mambaforge).

1) Install the latest release of `amici-st` from `PyPI <https://pypi.org/project/amici-st/>`_:

```bash
pip install amici-st
```

Or install the latest development version via the following command:

```bash
pip install git+https://github.com/azizilab/amici.git@main
```

2) Import `amici`

```python
import anndata
from amici import AMICI

adata = anndata.read_h5ad("./adata.h5ad")
AMICI.setup_anndata(adata, labels_key="cell_type", coord_obsm_key="spatial")
model = AMICI(adata, **model_params)
model.train()
```

## Documentation

Find a tutorial on basic usage of AMICI here: [Basic Usage Tutorial](examples/basic_usage.ipynb)

## Citation

If you find our work useful, please cite our preprint: https://www.biorxiv.org/content/10.1101/2025.09.22.677860v1

_AMICI: Attention Mechanism Interpretation of Cell-cell Interactions_

```
@article{Hong2025.09.22.677860,
    title = {AMICI: Attention Mechanism Interpretation of Cell-cell Interactions},
    author = {Hong, Justin and Desai, Khushi and Nguyen, Tu Duyen and Nazaret, Achille and Levy, Nathan and Ergen, Can and Plitas, George and Azizi, Elham},
    doi = {10.1101/2025.09.22.677860},
	journal = {bioRxiv},
	publisher = {Cold Spring Harbor Laboratory},
	year = {2025},
}
```

## Disclaimer

This work is licensed under a
[Creative Commons Attribution-NonCommercial 4.0 International License][cc-by-nc].

Justin Hong, Khushi Desai, and Elham Azizi are inventors on a provisional patent application having U.S. Serial No. 63/884,704, filed on September 19, 2025, by The Trustees of Columbia University in the City of New York directed to the subject matter of the manuscript associated with this repository.

Commit message:

update readme with documentation link

README.md, after:

# AMICI: Attention Mechanism Interpretation of Cell-cell Interactions

[![CC BY-NC 4.0][cc-by-nc-shield]][cc-by-nc]

[cc-by-nc]: https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-nc/4.0/
[cc-by-nc-shield]: https://img.shields.io/badge/License-CC%20BY--NC%204.0-lightgrey.svg

Cross-attention-based cell-cell interaction inference from ST data.

<img width="839" height="366" alt="amici_framework" src="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/13b05cb1-d59a-4ef1-8abe-858c8414448e" />

## Installation

You need to have Python 3.10 or newer installed on your system. If you don't have
Python installed, we recommend installing [Mambaforge](https://github.com/conda-forge/miniforge#mambaforge).

1) Install the latest release of `amici-st` from `PyPI <https://pypi.org/project/amici-st/>`_:

```bash
pip install amici-st
```

Or install the latest development version via the following command:

```bash
pip install git+https://github.com/azizilab/amici.git@main
```

2) Import `amici`

```python
import anndata
from amici import AMICI

adata = anndata.read_h5ad("./adata.h5ad")
AMICI.setup_anndata(adata, labels_key="cell_type", coord_obsm_key="spatial")
model = AMICI(adata, **model_params)
model.train()
```

## Documentation

Find more detailed documentation on AMICI here: [AMICI documentation](https://amici.readthedocs.io/en/latest/)
To get started, check out our tutorial on basic usage of AMICI here: [Basic Usage Tutorial](examples/basic_usage.ipynb)

## Citation

If you find our work useful, please cite our preprint: https://www.biorxiv.org/content/10.1101/2025.09.22.677860v1

_AMICI: Attention Mechanism Interpretation of Cell-cell Interactions_

```
@article{Hong2025.09.22.677860,
    title = {AMICI: Attention Mechanism Interpretation of Cell-cell Interactions},
    author = {Hong, Justin and Desai, Khushi and Nguyen, Tu Duyen and Nazaret, Achille and Levy, Nathan and Ergen, Can and Plitas, George and Azizi, Elham},
    doi = {10.1101/2025.09.22.677860},
	journal = {bioRxiv},
	publisher = {Cold Spring Harbor Laboratory},
	year = {2025},
}
```

## Disclaimer

This work is licensed under a
[Creative Commons Attribution-NonCommercial 4.0 International License][cc-by-nc].

Justin Hong, Khushi Desai, and Elham Azizi are inventors on a provisional patent application having U.S. Serial No. 63/884,704, filed on September 19, 2025, by The Trustees of Columbia University in the City of New York directed to the subject matter of the manuscript associated with this repository.
